---
title: "Implementation guidance"
source_pdf: "wellarchitected-framework.pdf"
pdf_page: 564
---

# Implementation guidance

Identify the sources of telemetry data that are relevant for your workloads and their components.
This data comes not only from components that publish metrics, such as your operating system
(OS) and application runtimes such as Java, but also from application and cloud service logs. For
example, web servers typically log each request with detailed information such as the timestamp,
processing latency, user ID, remote IP address, path, and query string. The level of detail in these
logs helps you perform detailed queries and generate metrics that may not have been otherwise
available.
Collect the metrics and logs using appropriate tools and processes. Logs generated by applications
running on Amazon EC2 instance can be collected by an agent such as the Amazon CloudWatch
Agent and published to a central storage service such as Amazon CloudWatch Logs. AWS-managed
compute services such as AWS Lambda and Amazon Elastic Container Service publish logs to
CloudWatch Logs for you automatically. Enable log collection for AWS storage and processing
services used by your workloads such as Amazon CloudFront, Amazon S3, Elastic Load Balancing,
and Amazon API Gateway.
Enrich your telemetry data with dimensions that can help you see behavioral patterns more clearly
and isolate correlated problems to groups of related components. Once added, you can observe
component behavior at a finer level of detail, detect correlated failures, and take appropriate
remedial steps. Examples of useful dimensions include Availability Zone, EC2 instance ID, and
container task or Pod ID.
Once you have collected the metrics and logs, you can write queries and generate aggregate
metrics from them that provide useful insights into both normal and anomalous behavior. For
example, you can use Amazon CloudWatch Logs Insights to derive custom metrics from your
application logs, Amazon CloudWatch Metrics Insights to query your metrics at scale, Amazon
CloudWatch Container Insights to collect, aggregate and summarize metrics and logs from your
containerized applications and microservices, or Amazon CloudWatch Lambda Insights if you're
using AWS Lambda functions. To create an aggregate error rate metric, you can increment a
counter each time an error response or message is found in your component logs or calculate the
aggregate value of an existing error rate metric. You can use this data to generate histograms that
show tail behavior, such as the worst-performing requests or processes. You can also scan this data
in real time for anomalous patterns using solutions such as CloudWatch Logs anomaly detection.
These insights can be placed on dashboards to keep them organized according to your needs and
preferences.
